For each of the following scenarios, call out the potential biases in the proposed experiment. 
Do your best to try to discover not only the bias, but the initial design. There is plenty of room for interpretation here, 
so make sure to state what assumptions you're making.

1. You're testing advertising emails for a bathing suit company and you test one version of the email in February and the other in May.
2. You open a clinic to treat anxiety and find that the people who visit show a higher rate of anxiety than the general population.
3. You launch a new ad billboard based campaign and see an increase in website visits in the first week.
4. You launch a loyalty program but see no change in visits in the first week.


1. Contextual bias in the delivery of the emails in two different time periods. Most people are not looking for swim suits in Feb.

2. Bias in assignment to conditions because the people who come to the clinic are pre-disposed to the symptoms of anxiety.

3. I think a better way to determine this is to see if website visits increase in the area(s) that the billboard went up. If the 
billboard was in San Diego but website visits increased in San Antonio, then there is no relationship.  You would want to better
design the experiment to test a more similar set of factors.  The increase in website visitors could be due to other factors such as an 
email going out, a news story about your company, more search/display paid advertising, a magazine ad, etc.  This test is inconclusive
without more information (contextual bias may be at play here, depending on the situation).

4. For this, I don't know how the loyalty program was designed and how it was "launched" so it's hard to say. And is this visits to the 
website or your retail store? Maybe the "visits" metric was website but the loyalty program was launched in the retail locations.  Also,
maybe you sent the loyalty program to people who already visit the store or website a lot so they didn't increase. Also, maybe you sent the 
loyalty program to people who very rarely visit the store or website, so an increase in their visit would have only a small impact in 
the over visits and that may be offset by another group's reduction in visits. Perhaps there was a weather event? Maybe one week is not a
long enough time (did you email or send this by postal mail?) The experiment should be designed to test the loyalty program on one group
and then nothing (control) on another group where the groups are similar in characteristics.
