Now it's time to flex your critical evaluation skills. Read the following descriptions of an experiment and its analysis, identify the flaws in each, and describe what you would do to correct them.

The Sith Lords are concerned that their recruiting slogan, "Give In to Your Anger," isn't very effective. Darth Vader develops an alternative slogan, "Together We Can Rule the Galaxy." They compare the slogans on two groups of 50 captured droids each. In one group, Emperor Palpatine delivers the "Anger" slogan. In the other, Dark Vader presents the "Together" slogan. 20 droids convert to the Dark Side after hearing Palpatine's slogan, while only 5 droids convert after hearing Vader's. The Sith's data scientist concludes that "Anger" is a more effective slogan and should continue to be used.

Flaws: Two different people presenting ("observer bias"). I don't know who Palpatine is but maybe he is more persuasive or scarier. It's also a pretty small sample (50 each) and they appear to be under duress (captured).

How to correct: I would have Vader and Palpatine alternate the slogan they use and see if that makes a difference. Also, I would increase the number of samples. I don't think there's much you can do about their anxiety but maybe you could have these guys ask people who are not captured (not sure if that works in this context).

In the past, the Jedi have had difficulty with public relations. They send two envoys, Jar Jar Binks and Mace Windu, to four friendly and four unfriendly planets respectively, with the goal of promoting favorable feelings toward the Jedi. Upon their return, the envoys learn that Jar Jar was much more effective than Windu: Over 75% of the people surveyed said their attitudes had become more favorable after speaking with Jar Jar, while only 65% said their attitudes had become more favorable after speaking with Windu. This makes Windu angry, because he is sure that he had a better success rate than Jar Jar on every planet. The Jedi choose Jar Jar to be their representative in the future.

Flaws: Simpson's paradox, the sample sizes of the planet may be impacting the overall rate.
Also not a random selection (selection bias) becauase JJB went to friendly planets which were predisposed to being favorable. 

Correct: randomize where you send them and ensure the sample sizes of the planets are similar, or use a different scale - not an overall average, but a by planet metric

A company with work sites in five different countries has sent you data on employee satisfaction rates for workers in Human Resources and workers in Information Technology. Most HR workers are concentrated in three of the countries, while IT workers are equally distributed across worksites. The company requests a report on satisfaction for each job type. You calculate average job satisfaction for HR and for IT and present the report.

Flaws - not accounting for the country differences, could be a Simpson's Paradox 

Correct - calculate the avg job sat by country and job type


When people install the Happy Days Fitness Tracker app, they are asked to "opt in" to a data collection scheme where their level of physical activity data is automatically sent to the company for product research purposes. During your interview with the company, they tell you that the app is very effective because after installing the app, the data show that people's activity levels rise steadily.

Flaws - because it's an opt in, it's possible that people who intend to use the app more will opt in and those who are hesitant to opt in may be telling you that they are not as likely to continue using it. Opt-in people also may be more into fitness to begin with, therefore increasing activity is easier. The groups are not random.

Correct - segment the opt-ins such that you can compare smaller and more similar groups. Take off the opt-in option, if possible, and re-do the study.

To prevent cheating, a teacher writes three versions of a test. She stacks the three versions together, first all copies of Version A, then all copies of Version B, then all copies of Version C. As students arrive for the exam, each student takes a test. When grading the test, the teacher finds that students who took Version B scored higher than students who took either Version A or Version C. She concludes from this that Version B is easier, and discards it.

Flaws - I guess it's possible that all of the smart kids came in at the same time and got the same test. Maybe they were all together in the last class (Advanced Placement type class) and therefore their scores just reflect how smart they are. Or maybe all the smart kids hang out together and entered around the same time. Maybe the test B kids were able to end up cheating :)

Correct - shuffle the tests so they are randomly given to the kids.
